the UN Security Council is to meet next
week to discuss the decision by the
bod's top Court to call for Israel to
prevent genocidal acts in Gaza Israel
has made clear it will continue to
defend itself against Hamas and has
described claims of genocide as
outrageous the judges stopped short of
demanding an immediate halt to Israel's
military operation here's our diplomatic
correspondent Paul
Adams gaza's despair just seems to
deepen Gaza City a rare glimpse of Aid
brings chaos and precious little relief
after 3 and a half months of war the
Palestinian population is on its knees
hungry sick or dead whether this amounts
to genocide is a decision for another
day but all this the un's top Court
insists has to stop before it gets worse
the military operation conducted by
Israel after 7 October 2023 has resulted
inter Alia in tens of thousands of
deaths and injuries and the destruction
of homes schools medical facilities and
other vital infrastructure as well as
displacement on a massive scale in these
circumstances the court considers that
the catastrophic humanitarian situation
in the Gaza Strip is at serious risk of
deteriorating further before the court
renders its final judgment by
overwhelming majorities the Court's 17
judges ruled that Israel must avoid void
killing or seriously harming
Palestinians mentally or physically
inflicting living conditions designed to
destroy the Palestinian population in
whole or in part or imposing measures
which prevent Palestinian births the
judges also said Israel must take all
measures to prevent and punish public
incitement to genocide and do more
immediately to improve humanitarian in
assistance on October the 7th last year
Hamas gunman launched devastating
attacks on Israeli communities bordering
the Gaza Strip more than 1,200 Israelis
were
killed Israel's response was
overwhelming since then more than 26,000
Palestinians have been killed mostly
women and children entire neighborhoods
have been destroyed almost 2 million
Palestinians have had to flee their
homes States now have a clear legal
obligation to stop Israel's genocidal
war on the Palestinian people in Gaza
and to make sure that they are not
complicit the icj order is an important
reminder that no state is above the
law crucially the court did not demand
an immediate ceasefire but it wants
Israel to behave very differently at a
time when its prime minister says the
war could go on for many more months
like every country Israel has an
inherent right to defend itself the vile
attempt to deny Israel this fundamental
right is blatant discrimination against
the Jewish State and it was justly
rejected the charge of genocide leveled
against Israel is not only false it's
outrageous and decent people everywhere
should reject
it the court also called for Israeli
hostages to be released without
condition but it's powerless to make any
of this happen today's ruling was
significant but it doesn't necessarily
mean that an end to the agony of
Palestinians or Israelis is any closer
Paul Adams BBC
News well a little earlier our Middle
East correspondent Mark loen explained
whether the ruling will materially
change the situation in
Gaza it's legally unenforceable on the
ground Sarah unless it is referred to
the UN Security Council and then passes
in a in a resolution there although the
us could veto that uh but I think what
it does do is it places renewed scrutiny
and renewed pressure on Israel over its
actions in Gaza uh uh to stop um to to
to stop any possible actions that could
be classified as geni genocide uh to
increase humanitarian Aid and to stop
inflammatory language now it is I think
in a sense it's kind of a cog in a wider
wheel of diplomacy and pressure that is
that is in action and is being placed on
on Israel uh so on Friday uh President
Biden spoke to the Emir of Qatar and
president of Egypt about renewed
attempts to reach a ceasefire and we
understand that talks could begin in
France possibly as early as tomorrow uh
between the leaders of the CIA Israel
and Egypt's intelligence agencies and
top officials from Qatar to try uh to
push both Waring sides towards a new
ceasefire deal but at the moment of
course Israel and Hamas are still very
far apart on key issues like the
duration of a ceasefire uh the way which
hostages and Palestinian prisoners could
be released so there are no hopes of an
imminent breakthrough but I think it all
adds together all of these different
elements into a sign that things are
beginning to move again